Provision for credit losses is expected to be in a range of 20 to 25 basis points of average loans in 2024.

Provision for credit losses in 2024 are expected to be in a range of 35 to 40 basis points of average loans. Overall provisioning levels are likely to remain elevated, as macroeconomic factors that have caused these levels are expected to continue this year.

In 2024, provision for credit losses is expected to be in a range of 25 to 30 basis points of average loans. 2023 included a small number of single name losses in the International Private Bank and higher provision for credit losses from temporary operational backlog in the second half of 2023 in Private Bank Germany.

The Group’s aspirations are subject to various external and internal factors, some of which it cannot influence. Timely and successful achievement of its strategic targets or aspirations including containing costs at the expected run rate, may be adversely impacted by reduced revenue-generating capacities of some of the bank’s core businesses should downside risks crystallize. These risks include but are not limited to the uncertain future path of inflation and central bank’s policies on interest rates, the Israel-Hamas conflict and the war in Ukraine with both having escalation potential, a deteriorating macroeconomic environment, elevated geopolitical risks, cyber events, the ongoing headwinds posed by regulatory reforms and the effects on the bank’s legal and regulatory proceedings.
[...]
In addition, there were episodes of significant market volatility particularly around selective failures and/or restructurings in the U.S. and European banking sector as well as increasing pressure on the CRE market, particularly in the U.S. office sector. Overall, these trends could continue to drive high levels of uncertainty and could result in fluctuations in the results of the Group’s operations, strategic plans and financial targets.

A pronounced tightening in financial conditions would lead to more stringent lending standards, higher client refinancing risks, with Commercial Real Estate and higher leveraged corporate clients among the sectors with increased risk.